# cybersecurity-portfolio
My Cybersecurity Journey

  I originally graduated with a mechanical engineering degree, and later, I received a graduate degree in engineering management. I worked in the engineering field for 7 years. I always enjoyed the practicality of my major. It seemed to teach me a little about almost every subject, so understanding problems in electrical, chemical, etc. fields came somewhat naturally. However, I think my major neglected to teach me sufficiently for more ever present fields: computers, computer networks, and coding.
  A unique opportunity presented itself to begin studying the cybersecurity bachelors coursework from SANS Institute, and I jumped at the opportunity. I think the coursework has well prepared me to speak intelligently with peers or professionals in the field and has greatly improved my coding and problem solving skills. I have since taken some opportunities to test my skills in opportunities like the Try Hack ME Advent Calendar and the spring 2026 National Cyber League (NCL) Capture the Flag (CTF) Challenge.
    I found the NCL challenge specifically encouraging. As a relative novice at cybersecurity and CTF challenges, I was thankful and encouraged with the pre-competition training areas, which allowed me to beef and try out skills that I had only learned about in a class setting. NCL uses scales from Easy-Hard, and I was delighted to find that I could consistently tackle Easy-Medium questions. I found the Forensics sections to be most entertaining, as the structure, I think, most aptly resembles a "capture the flag" type game. I also enjoy cracking passwords, although the part I love most also leads to intense frustration. I think the anticipation of waiting for John the Ripper or Hashcat brings excitement and relief to a cracked password. However, when certain techniques and avenues bring you to unbelievably long wait times due to computer capabilities or a bag technique, the feeling is quickly overtaken by frustration. I probably perform the worst at network analysis. The pure number of packets coupled with my only fundamental understanding or reading network packets mostly results in a lot of clicking and guessing on my part. At least I know where to focus my future training.
    Anyway, feel free to look at my NCL score reports as I continue the cybersecurity journey.

